> [!note] Memoryless Property
> For Geometric variable $X \enspace \textasciitilde \enspace \text{Geometric}(p)$, 
> $$\mathbb{P}[X>n+m | X > m] = \mathbb{P}[X > n]$$
#### Explanation
As we found in the [[4.2d.1 Geometric Distribution|previous note]], the probability that we need $n$ trials or before getting the first success equals $\mathbb{P}[X \geq n] = (1-p)^{n-1}$. By that same logic, the probability that we need more than $n$ tosses is $\mathbb{P}[X > n]=(1-p)^n$. This can also be interpreted as the probability that we will get $n$ fails before the first success.

What if we've already done $m$ trials without a success, and we are trying to find the probability that we will need more than $n$ more trials to get a success? Turns out that this probability is 
$$
\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
\mathbb{P}[X>n+m |X>m] &= \frac{\mathbb{P}[X>n+m \cap X > m]}{\mathbb{P}[X>m]} \\
&= \frac{\mathbb{P}[X>n+m]}{\mathbb{P}[X>m]} \\
&= \frac{(1-p)^{n+m}}{(1-p)^(m)} \\
&= (1-p)^n \\
&= \mathbb{P}[X>n].
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
$$
In this sense, the geometric distribution is **memoryless**, since the first $m$ trials failing does not influence the number of additional trials that we need for a certain probability.

>[!example] The Coupon Collector Problem
>Suppose we want to collect $n$ cards. We get one card with each box of cereal we buy. How many boxes of cereal do we need to buy before we get at least one copy of each card? Let $S_n$ denote the number of boxes we buy to collect all the cards. Let $X_i$ be the number of boxes we need to buy to collect the $i$th new card. Naturally, we need to find the expectation $\mathbb{E}[S_n]$.
>
>The problem starts off easy: $X_1=1$, $\mathbb{P}[X_1]=1$ and $\mathbb{E}[X_1]=1$ since the first card we buy will always be new.
>
>For $X_2$, the probability of getting the same card as in $X_1$ is $\frac{1}{n}$, so $$\mathbb{P}[X_2]=1-\frac{1}{n}=\frac{n-1}{n}.$$ Since we can think of getting a new card as a geometric distribution of multiple fails and one success, 
>$$\mathbb{E}[X_2]=\frac{1}{\mathbb{P}[X_2]}=\frac{n}{n-1}.$$
>$$...$$
>What about $X_3$? Well, the probability of getting the same card is now $\frac{2}{n}$, so
>$$\mathbb{P}[X_3] = \frac{n-2}{n}.$$
>Therefore,
>$$\mathbb{E}[X_3]=\frac{n}{n-2}.$$
>A pattern emerges: for $X_i$, $\mathbb{P}[X_i]=\frac{n-i+1}{n}$ and $\mathbb{E}[X_i]=\frac{n}{n-i+1}$. Finally, solving for $\mathbb{E}[S_n]$,
>$$
>\begin{equation}
\begin{aligned}
>\mathbb{E}[S_n] &= \sum^{n}_{i=1}\mathbb{E}[X_i] \\
>&= \sum^{n}_{i=1}\frac{n}{n-i+1} \\
>&= \frac{n}{n} + \frac{n}{n-1} +...+ \frac{n}{2} + \frac{n}{1} \\
>&= n \sum^{n}_{i=1}\frac{1}{i} \approx n(\ln{n}+\gamma_E)
\end{aligned}
\end{equation}
>$$
>Where $\gamma = 0.5772...$ is known as Euler's constant. Thus, for $n=100$, we expect to buy about 518 boxes.
