>[!note] Aggregate Consumption
>We can aggregate the consumption of all agents in an economy as
>$$C=C(Y^+-T^-, CS^+, r^-)$$
>where $Y-T$ is the agent's after-tax income, $CS$ is the overall consumer sentiment (perceptions of future income), and $r$ is the interest rate.

# Intuition
We can aggregate the consumption and savings of agents A and B with different endowment patterns as $C_1=N_Ac_1^A+N_Bc_1^B=\frac{1}{1+\beta}\left(Y_1+\frac{Y_2}{1+r}\right)$ where capital letters indicate aggregate variables (e.g. $Y_1 = N_Ay_1^A +N_By_1^B$). Therefore, we can determine the aggregate consumption in the economy to be a function of permanent income $W$ and the interest rate $r$: $C(W, r)$.

However, we will be wrong, since we have overlooked a few complications with [[1.5b Permanent Income Hypothesis|PIH]] and [[1.5c Random Walk Hypothesis|RWH]]:
1. Irrational agents will spend all of their income.
	- Campbell and Mankiw (1989) get a positive correlation between predictable changes in income and changes in consumption.
2. Some agents cannot borrow as much as they want against future income.
	- Shea (1995) concludes that consumption of long-term unionized workers rises with income even though workers' union contracts predict these increases in income.
3. Some agents do not have access to credit markets.
	- Johnson, Parker and Souleles (2004) find that almost all households consumed the $300 government rebate in 2001.

Therefore, the correct consumption function for many consumers is $C=C(Y,W,r)$. However, future income $W$ is a very uncertain variable, and there needs to be a better statistic that may approximate it. Enter CS (consumer sentiment), which is the general public's opinion of their near-future income:
$$C=C(Y-T,CS,r)$$
In summary:
- $Y-T$ (current after-tax disposable income) is introduced to be consistent with departures from the permanent income hypothesis. When it rises (income increases or taxes decrease), so will aggregate consumption.
- $CS$ (consumer sentiment) is an exogenous variable whose increases lead to increases in perceived permanent income, thus increasing consumption.
- $r$ (interest rate) has a negative impact on consumption, since a higher interest rate is an incentive to save.