>[!note] Probability Space
>A probability space consists of a sample space, $\Upomega$, and a probability $\mathbb{P}[\upomega]$ for each sample point $\upomega \in \Upomega$, such that:
>- (Non-negativity) $0 \leq \mathbb{P}[\upomega] \leq 1$ for all $\upomega \in \Upomega$
>- (Sum to one) $\sum^{}_{\upomega \in \Upomega}\mathbb{P}[\upomega]=1$
#### Summary.
For a probability function $\mathbb{P}$, the probability space is the range, and the sample space is the domain. For a probability space to be valid, the probabilities of all of the samples in the sample space should be **non-negative and no more than 1**, while their **total sum should equate to 1**.

>[!example] Birthday Paradox
>We want to calculate the probability of at least two people sharing the same birthday in a group of n people. We start by saying that $S=\set{1,...,365}$ since there are $365$ days to sample $n$ from. Then, $|\Upomega|=365^n$ (FRC with replacement), since for each additional sample point, there are 365 available choices.
>
>We let A be the event that at least two people share the same birthday. Then we need to calculate $\mathbb{P}[A]$. However, it is easier to do so using the complement of A, $\mathbb{P}[\bar{A}]$, since it only takes into account instances where everyone has a different birthday. Since this is the case, $|\bar{A}|=\frac{365!}{(365-n)!}$ (FRC w/o replacement) since each person in the group has to have a different birthday. Therefore,
>$$\mathbb{P}[A]=1-\mathbb{P}[\bar{A}]=1-\frac{|\bar{A}|}{|\Upomega|}=1-\frac{365!}{(365-n)! \times 365^n}$$
>This means that in a group of 60 people, there is a 99% chance of two or more people sharing the same birthday.


>[!example] Monty Hall Problem
>You are a contestant on a game show and can choose to open one of 3 doors, two of them containing a goat, and one of them containing a brand new car. You choose one of the doors, and Monty Hall opens another one, knowing that he's opening a door with a goat behind it. Should you switch, or should you keep your original choice?
>
>Let $A, B, C$ be the events that the car is behind door A, B, or C. Then $\mathbb{P}[A]=\mathbb{P}[B]=\mathbb{P}[C]=\frac{1}{3}$. Let's say you pick door A. This means that $\mathbb{P}[B \cup C]=\frac{2}{3}$. If Monty opens door C, then $\mathbb{P}[C]=0$, and so $\mathbb{P}[B]=\frac{2}{3}$. In most cases, it is therefore better to switch.
>
>What is the sample space here? Consider a triple $(A, B, C)$, which represents:
>1. A: The location of the prize.
>2. B: The initial door opened by the contestant.
>3. C: The door opened by Monty.
>
>Note that some triples are not possible, e.g. $(A, B, A)$, since Monty cannot open the door that contains the car or the door that the contestant has picked. It turns out that there are 12 different permutations of triples that can be made. These include:
>$$
>\begin{align}
>(A, B, C) \\
>(A, C, B) \\
>(B, C, A) \\
>(B, A, C) \\
>(C, B, A) \\
>(C, A, B) \\
>(A, A, B) \\
>(A, A, C) \\
>(B, B, A) \\
>(B, B, C) \\
>(C, C, A) \\
>(C, C, B)
>\end{align}
>$$
>We note that there are only two events that could happen: $E_1=$ Monty has one door to pick (as in the first 6 triples), and $E_2=$ Monty has two doors to pick (as in the last 6 triples). Then:
>$$
>\begin{alignat}{0}
>\mathbb{P}[E_1]=\frac{1}{3} \times \frac{1}{3} \times 1 = \frac{1}{9}
>\\
>\mathbb{P}[E_2]=\frac{1}{3} \times \frac{1}{3} \times \frac{1}{2} = \frac{1}{18}
>\end{alignat}
>$$
>Note that in the first equation we multiply by 1 because Monty has 1 door to choose, and in the second equation we multiply by $\frac{1}{2}$ because he can choose between 2 doors.
>
>Let's suppose the contestant wants to switch doors. Now, let $W$ be the event that the contestant wins. Which sample points $(A, B, C)$ are in W? Since we are interested in the event that the contestant **has to win**, the only way this could happen is if they didn't initially pick the prize door (that is, the first 6 triples). Therefore, the contestant has a $\mathbb{P}[W]=6 \times \frac{1}{9} = \frac{2}{3}$ chance of winning.

