>[!note] Bayes' Rule & Total Probability Rule
>For partitioned into $n$ events $A=A_1 \cup A_2 \cup A_3 \cup ... \cup A_n$ where $A_i \cap A_j = \emptyset$ for all $i \neq j$ (mutually exclusive sets):
>>[!note] Total Probability Rule
>>$$\mathbb{P}[B]=\sum^{n}_{i=1}\mathbb{P}[B \cap A_i]=\sum^{n}_{i=1}\mathbb{P}[B|A_i]\mathbb{P}[A_i]$$
>
>>[!note] Bayes' Rule
>>Assuming $\mathbb{P}[B] > 0$:
>>$$\mathbb{P}[A_i|B]=\frac{\mathbb{P}[B|A_i]\mathbb{P}[A_i]}{\mathbb{P}[B]}=\frac{\mathbb{P}[B|A_i]\mathbb{P}[A_i]}{\sum^{n}_{j=1}\mathbb{P}[B|A_j]\mathbb{P}[A_j]}$$
>
#### Intuition.
Bayes' Theorem: To find $\mathbb{P}[A_i|B]$, we need to multiply $\mathbb{P}[A_i]$ by the ratio of $\frac{\mathbb{P}[B|A_i]}{\mathbb{P}[B]}$. This is out way of updating the probability given more information.

Bayesian inference is a method of statistical inference with the goal of updating the probability of a hypothesis as more information is taken into account. For example, we may estimate the probability of an event $\mathbb{P}[A]$ (**prior probability**), and then update the probability to $\mathbb{P}[A|B]$ once event B occurs (**posterior probability**). Both rules utilize the [[1.2 Conditional Probability|conditional probability rule]].

>[!example] Pharmaceutical Company
>A pharmaceutical company is marketing a new test for a medical disorder. It has the following probabilities:
>1. When applied to an affected person, the test is positive in 90% of the cases and negative in 10% (**false negatives**).
>2. When applied to a healthy person, the test is negative 80% of the time and positive 20% of the time (**false positive**).
>
>Suppose that the incidence of the disease in the U.S. is 5%; this is our prior knowledge. When a person tests positive, what is the updated probability that they have the disease?
>
>Let A be the event that the person is affected, and let B be the event that the person tests positive. Then,
>$$
>\begin{alignat}{0}
>\mathbb{P}[A]=0.05 \\
>\mathbb{P}[B|A]=0.90 \\
>\mathbb{P}[B|\bar{A}]=0.20
\end{alignat}
>$$
>Since 90% of affected people test positive, and so do 20% of healthy people ($B|\bar{A}$).
>
>We want to calculate $\mathbb{P}[A|B]$. We proceed as follows:
>$$\mathbb{P}[A|B]=\frac{\mathbb{P}[A \cap B]}{\mathbb{P}[B]}=\frac{\mathbb{P}[B|A]\mathbb{P}[A]}{\mathbb{P}[B]}$$
>We only need to find $\mathbb{P}[B]$. How? Well, we can picture $\mathbb{P}[A|B]$ in the following graph of $\Upomega$:
>```tikz
>\begin{document}
>\begin{tikzpicture}[domain=0:4]
>\draw[] (0, 0) ellipse (4 and 2) node[left]{};
>\draw[] (-1, 0) ellipse (2 and 1) node[below]{$A$};
>\draw[] (1.25, 0) circle (1) node[below]{$B$};
>\draw[->] (0.6,0) -- (0.4,-1.25) node[below]{$A \cap B$};
>\draw[->] (1.25,0) -- (2,-1) node[below]{$\bar{A} \cap B$};
>\end{tikzpicture}
>\end{document}
>```
>This means that $\mathbb{P}[B]=\mathbb{P}[A \cap B]+\mathbb{P}[\bar{A} \cap B]$. Applying the rules of conditional probability, we have:
>$$
>\begin{equation}{}
>\begin{aligned}
>\mathbb{P}[B] &= \mathbb{P}[A \cap B]+\mathbb{P}[\bar{A} \cap B]=\mathbb{P}[B|A]\mathbb{P}[A]+\mathbb{P}[B|\bar{A}]\mathbb{P}[\bar{A}]= \\ &= \mathbb{P}[B|A]\mathbb{P}[A]+\mathbb{P}[B|\bar{A}](1-\mathbb{P}[A])
>\end{aligned}
>\end{equation}
>$$
>Finally, combining the two equations, we have:
>$$\mathbb{P}[A|B]=\frac{\mathbb{P}[B|A]\mathbb{P}[A]}{\mathbb{P}[B|A]\mathbb{P}[A]+\mathbb{P}[B|\bar{A}](1-\mathbb{P}[A])}$$
